Good morning everyone.
I'm John Montprion from
Apple Developer Technical Support.
I'm very pleased to
introduce John Comiskey,
Senior Apple Script Engineer,
who will be guiding you
through this hands-on session.
I'd like to point out that
the download materials,
Sketch 1.1.2,
was not available on the DMG and you
would have had to download that from
the Secure Developer Conference website
before this session begins.
Because of our network situation
today you might not be able to
download that during the session,
so please just follow along.
You can download that later.
But here's John,
maybe give him a round of
applause and thank you.
Good morning, thank you very much.
My name is John Comiskey and I'm an
engineer in the Apple Script Group and
I'm here to talk to you today about
implementing a scripting interface.
Before we start,
there are some assumptions that
we've made about who's here today.
We're assuming that you know
something about Cocoa and Objective-C.
It may not be the only language you
use or even the one you use the most,
but if you're going to do
Cocoa scripting you're going to need
to know how to write Cocoa code.
We're also presuming that you've got
an application that's been designed
and maybe even implemented and that
you want to add scriptability to it.
Your dictionary, by the time you reach
this point in development,
should already be designed.
If you were at session 103 yesterday,
you found out about how to write an SDEF,
how to express your scripting
implementation or your scripting
interface in the form of an SDEF,
which then presents to your
user an AppleScript dictionary.
We're also presuming that you've
identified one or more real-world test
cases that are going to prove not only
the functionality of your scripting,
but its usefulness to your end users.
This could be some kind
of feature extension,
something that your program
is capable of doing,
but only after a certain number
of steps have been performed.
You want to streamline this,
allow your users to do it all in one step
and use scriptability as a way to do it.
You're going to implement that
feature extension in an Apple script.
and that Apple Script needs
to solve a real-world problem
that your users actually have.
Scripting is interesting
as an academic exercise,
but it's only going to be a
selling point for you if it
solves your end-user's problems.
And as John just said,
if you haven't already
downloaded the sample code,
you may not be able to
get it during the session.
But you can follow along and you'll have
ample opportunity to download it later.
And if you want to come and discuss
it with us in our lab this afternoon,
you can do that as well.
This is where you're going to need to
go to get documentation and sample code.
In addition to the sample
code for this session,
there's lots of other
interesting things here.
Documentation that will help you
design your scripting interface and
implement the code that supports it.
The procedures that we're going to
cover today are equally applicable
to both Cocoa and Carbon programs.
You can use Cocoa scripting in
an otherwise pure Carbon program.
There is a few things that you
need to do special to hook up
Cocoa scripting in your main.c file.
And if you are in that situation
and you want to do that,
come to the lab and we'll
show you how to do it.
It's not hard, it's just a little arcane
for presentation here.
Here's what we're going
to be talking about today.
We're going to talk about logging.
Logging has proven to be
invaluable to me as I've
developed scriptable applications.
Cocoa scripting calls into your
objects many times in many places.
The patterns are absolutely
predictable once you get to know them,
but you have to get to know them,
and logging can help you do that.
We're going to talk
about element accessors.
Your application has objects in it.
The scripters need to be
able to get at those objects,
and element accessors are
what they use to do that.
We're going to talk
about property accessors.
Two objects of the same class
differ from each other in the
values of their various properties.
This is what makes scripting
your objects interesting,
the fact that your users can tell
them apart by looking at their
properties and seeing what they say.
A typical property that's going to
tell most objects apart is its name.
We're also going to talk
about implementing commands,
and there's two different
ways to do that.
In Cocoa scripting your commands
can be dispatched to an object which
knows what to do with that command,
or if the command inherently
acts on a set of objects,
the command can be dispatched
directly to a command handler
that collects the relevant objects
and acts on all of them at once.
We'll be talking about both of those.
We'll also be talking about
automated regression testing.
As you implement your
scripting interface,
you're going to build up a collection
of small unit test scripts.
You're going to want to keep those.
You're going to want
to record the results,
and you're going to want to run them
over and over again to make sure
that you haven't broken anything.
And if you can run your regression
tests over and over again and
get the same results each time,
you know that the changes you've made to
your program haven't hurt your scripting.
And this can be valuable whether
the changes you've made had anything
to do with scripting or not.
that.
We're also going to get back to
testing our real-world test cases.
This is the value of scriptability.
If your end users identify
a real-world objective,
some mission-critical activity
that they need to perform
over and over and over again,
and they use scriptability and they
use your application to implement that,
then they are your customer for life.
As long as they keep using
that automated workflow,
as long as that's part of their job,
then your application is
going to be part of their job.
And that's one of the
greatest benefits to you.
This is the macro that I use for logging.
It's very simple.
Based on a simple if statement,
this macro either expands into
an NSLog statement or it doesn't.
Once that switch is turned off,
all of this disappears from your code,
it adds no overhead at all,
but when you turn that switch on,
if you change that to if1 instead of if0,
then you can watch what
Cocoa scripting does as it calls the
various accessors in your program.
Your logging should be ubiquitous.
You should put it absolutely everywhere.
In every accessor,
every element accessor,
every property accessor,
every event handler.
And as the event handler becomes
complex and starts to do various
processing based on its input,
you'll want to log the significant
events in that as well.
Element accessors are what allow
scripters to get at the objects
that live inside your application.
And there's different kinds.
There's one very simple--each application
is going to have one very simple accessor
for the entire collection of objects.
We're going to be talking about Sketch,
which is a simple graphics program,
and one of the objects that it
has a collection of is rectangles.
So an accessor that would fetch
all the rectangles at once would
simply be called rectangles.
That's sometimes not terribly efficient.
In Sketch, a document might have
ten rectangles in it.
That's not too many.
In another application,
a database application for instance,
you might have millions of records.
Returning the entire collection all
at once isn't terribly practical.
So there's other ways to handle that.
There's accelerated accessors that allow
you to get at your objects by name,
by index, or by unique ID.
You shouldn't simply grab the
entire collection and look
for things by name yourself.
Cocoa Scripting will do that for you.
You shouldn't have to write
the entire collection.
You can write that code because
someone else has already written it
and you don't have to maintain it.
But if you've got a database
application and you can get at one
record out of a million and you can do
it really fast by using its unique ID,
then you should definitely have
an accelerated accessor for that.
Your scripters will be much happier
with the performance of their scripts
if you provide this kind of support.
Element accessors also
include setter-type functions.
If you're familiar with AppleScript,
you know that you can make new objects.
You can also delete existing objects
and you can replace objects in place.
These accessors are what support that.
You'll notice that there's
two kinds of insert accessors:
one that inserts at a particular index,
one that does not.
This depends upon the
nature of your application.
In some applications the
order of the objects matters.
For instance, the order of windows in an
application is always front to back.
In other applications,
order may not be particularly important.
If you do have a big
random access database,
the index of a particular
record isn't as important.
So, creating a new record,
you might just want to
create it at the end.
So use whichever of these accessors
is appropriate for the kind of object
that the scripter would be creating.
That's a decision that you make based
on your knowledge of your application.
So now we're going to look at logging
and element accessors on demo 2.
This is the Sketch project which
is available in the developer
folder on any machine where you've
installed the developer tools.
It's an example application,
simple graphics,
it's already scriptable and we're going
to add scripting capabilities to it.
[Transcript missing]
is going to be called "Rectangles"
and so we'll search for a whole word
and see if we can find exactly that.
And we have.
[Transcript missing]
And we're going to find
that there's some more,
as a matter of fact.
That here is the insert accessor.
When a new rectangle is created,
it's inserted in the
collection by calling this.
There's a remove accessor,
so when a rectangle is
deleted via Scriptability,
this code will be called and
the rectangle will go away.
This is the replace accessor,
same thing that replaces an
existing rectangle in place.
Back here at the beginning,
I've got a header file
and in my header file,
is where I have my macros defined.
And I'm going to take this switch
and I'm going to change it to a
1 so that my macros will expand
while we're doing this exercise.
You would want to make sure that
when you check this into any code
repository you always have the
switch off so that none of your
fellow programmers get any surprises.
So those are element
accessors and logging.
That's what they look like.
So let's come back here and build this.
I usually like to run from the debugger
because then if I find something
interesting I can just immediately
add a breakpoint and try it again
and see what's really happening.
And I like to open the console log
because that allows me to watch
my logging messages as they go by.
So we'll run this.
And here's Sketch.
And since we're interested in rectangles,
we'll draw a few of them.
And we'll set that over to the side.
And I've already got the
script editor running.
And we want to drive
that simple accessor.
We want to make it fetch all the
rectangles and see what happens.
So, I'm going to select Event Log down
here at the bottom because then
that will show me the results
of each event as they go by.
I'm going to tell Document 1 that
I want to get every rectangle.
And I usually put a healthy timeout
in my test scripts because if I am
debugging and I hit a breakpoint,
I would rather that the script not
fail because of a timeout while I'm
poking around looking at variables.
So we'll run that.
And as you can see,
I've got three rectangles.
They're untitled at this point.
They don't have any names.
And you can also see
down here in the log,
it's hit my logging message
and it shows up here.
So now I know when I execute a "get
every rectangle" line of Apple script,
it's going to call my rectangles
method inside my object.
And if we can go back to the slides,
please.
Logging and Element Accessors
No new code there because Sketch is
already scriptable and already
handles a collection of rectangles.
Now we're going to talk
about Property Accessors.
The things that make one particular
instance of a class different
from another are its properties.
For a rectangle it's going
to be height and width,
fill color, stroke color,
other things like that.
Properties can be of two types.
They can be read-only or read-write.
Read-only properties are going to
be things that you can't change.
For example,
the physical dimensions of a display.
No matter how much you'd like to write
a line of Apple script that says,
"Give me a 30-inch cinema
display," you can't do that.
So that property is
going to be read-only.
However,
the pixel resolution of a given display
at any point in time can be changed.
So that would be a read-write property.
And you're going to want to implement
the properties in your application
according to your design as read-only
or read-write as appropriate.
The property accessors, again,
they leverage the key value coding,
which is an important technology.
provides for consistency of access and
that's what Apple Scripts all about.
We want consistency of access to your
application and across applications.
So the fact that Cocoa scripting
leverages key value coding
is highly appropriate.
It means that all Cocoa scripting
programs are working the same way
when they go after your objects.
And that means that your
implementation and everybody
else's scripting implementation
are going to be more consistent.
And consistency across applications
is greatly desired by scripters.
Cocoa Bindings also
leverages key value coding.
It's an easy way to keep your view
and your model in sync without having
to write a lot of controller code.
And less code is less bugs.
So you should use things
like Cocoa Bindings and
leverage KVC even further.
So now we're going to go back to demo
two and look at property accessors.
We could go in and modify existing files,
and you can do that
certainly with your project.
But if you work in a large team
and more than one person might
be touching the same files,
more than one person might
be modifying the same object,
you might find it convenient to use a
Objective C categories instead,
and that's what I've done here.
And the categories each
live in a separate file.
So now it's not necessary.
"It's up to you to modify
the existing files.
If someone else happens to be working
on the project at the same time as me,
I can work on scripting,
he can do what he's doing,
and we won't bother each other.
So I'm going to add two files.
[Transcript missing]
Here's the code.
If you were in 103 yesterday,
you'll know that orientation is
one of three enumerated values:
landscape, portrait, and square.
We're going to support
all three of those.
Here's the code that does it.
When we're getting the orientation
it's really pretty easy.
Something might be a square,
we're not sure.
So we're going to set the
initial value to square.
Then we're going to compare the height
and width and if it's taller then
that's portrait orientation and if it's
wider that's landscape orientation and
then we're going to return that value.
You notice that we return the raw
4 byte codes and we say that this
routine returns an unsigned value.
Cocoa scripting will take care of
turning that into an NSNumber for
you and sending it back through
AppleScript and AppleScript will
take care of turning it back into a
human readable representation of that
enumerated value and your scripting users
will see a very nice portrait landscape
square as the possible orientations.
The setter is a little bit more complex.
First thing we do is we look at the
incoming orientation to make sure that
it's one of the ones that we support.
And if we don't, if it's not one of the
ones that we support,
down here at the bottom
of this switch statement,
We set an error because we know that we
can't set something to orientation 9.
That's not going to work.
So if it's not one of the valid inputs,
we reject it by generating an error,
and we'll show you that in a second.
Otherwise,
if it's one of the orientations
that we do know about,
we handle it in various ways.
If someone requests that the
orientation be set to square,
well, that's not really appropriate
unless it already is a square.
So if the existing rectangle
is not already square,
we're going to generate
an error for that as well.
The one case where something good happens
is if we're changing from portrait to
landscape or from landscape to portrait.
And we make that test and verify that
that is in fact what we're doing.
And if so, we simply set the width to the
height and the height to the width
and we reverse the orientation.
Quit the copy that we had running
and build and run a new one.
Okay, and again, Sketch comes up.
We draw a couple of rectangles.
Try hard to draw a square here.
See how well I did?
Not too bad.
And now that's a square.
We'll go back to the script editor.
Close that script.
[Transcript missing]
That's a little easier to read.
Here's our test for orientation.
We're going to look at
what the orientation is,
which will cause us to
call the "get" accessor,
and then we're going to
set it to what it wasn't,
which will cause us to
call the "set" accessor.
And if everything's working right,
we should see the logging
happening down here while we do it.
So, as you can see,
these two rectangles have
changed their orientation.
And down here in the log,
we can see that the Rectangles
accessor is being called,
the Orientation accessor is being called,
and the Set Orientation
accessor is also being called.
So everything we expect to have happen,
happened.
And now we're learning something about
the order in which these things occur,
and we're learning how to map
what happens in the log back
to what happens in the script.
And you can see we even
generated an error.
We tried to set the orientation
of rectangle 1 to 5.
That's obviously not going to work.
And sure enough,
we got an error when we tried to do that.
And I'll show you exactly
how we saw that error.
We set a variable to an error
value and then here at the bottom
We went and found the
"reply" Apple event,
which is hanging around
ready for your use.
We went and found that by asking
the Apple Event Manager for
its single shared instance,
getting the current "reply"
Apple event from that,
creating a descriptor with
our error number in it,
and then sticking that in the "reply"
event with the key error number.
What happens is Cocoa scripting takes
that and sends it back to the descriptor
as the result of this operation.
Since the event has an error in it,
the script editor will report that error.
Okay,
if we can go back to the slides please.
Okay, so that's Property Accessors.
Now commands.
Apple Script has a set of,
depending upon how you count them,
13 to 15 built-in verbs.
And we encourage people
"To use those to the
greatest extent possible.
Most of the things you need to do are
going to be accomplished by those verbs.
As a matter of fact,
Sketch is considered to be a
fully scriptable application and
it does not add any commands at
all before today." Get and Set.
As we just saw,
you can use Get and Set of a
property like Orientation to actually
change the shape of an object.
You don't need a Change Shape verb.
You can just change a property which
would cause it to change its shape.
That's the way we like you to do things.
We like you to use Get and
Set as much as possible.
If you've got some kind of persistent
state that you want to start and stop,
you don't need a verb to do it.
You just need a Boolean that
you can turn on and off.
But, that being said,
every application does something
that no other application does.
Every application does something
that isn't in that set of 13 verbs.
In this case, since we're talking
about a graphics program,
Rotate is one of them.
Where did we find Rotate?
We found it in the menu bar.
Rotate is a menu command
inside of Sketch.
It's something that Sketch can do,
but the scripting up until now
didn't have any name for it.
Alignment is the same thing.
Alignment is something that's in
the menu bar of Sketch and now we're
going to make it scriptable as well.
The difference here is Rotate
acts on single objects.
Even if you want Rotate to act
on a collection of objects,
it can act on each of them singly.
The objects themselves don't
need to know anything else.
They don't need to know anything
else other than that they're
supposed to Rotate and by how much.
So that's an excellent candidate
for object-first dispatching.
All we really need to do is tell
each and every object that we
care about to go ahead and Rotate.
Alignment is a different deal.
The alignment has to be to something.
In the case of Sketch,
the first element in the array,
which turns out to be the
last graphic that you created,
is the match point.
The match point is the line to that.
But you can't send an align
command to a collection.
You have to send the
align command somewhere.
We do it with verb-first dispatching.
We send the align command
to a verb handler.
The verb handler finds the collection
of objects that needs to be
aligned and performs the operation
collectively on all of them at once.
So, in object-first dispatching
you're going to want to have an
entry in your SDEF that looks
something along the lines of this.
And if you were at 103 yesterday
you saw pretty much exactly this.
The human readable name of this
command is going to be "rotate"
and that's highlighted up there.
The kind of object that it's going
to create is an NS script command,
which is the generic handler
for all incoming verbs.
This is actually the default.
We could have just as easily
left it out of this entry,
but I put it up there to show you
a distinction between this and how
the verb-first dispatching works,
which we'll see in a moment.
There's also going to
need to be a parameter,
"rotate acts on a collection of
objects," but we also need to tell
them how much we want them to rotate.
So we also support a parameter,
which in this case is a number,
the number of degrees through
which to rotate the object.
Since this is object-first dispatching,
we're going to need to say which
objects know how to rotate.
As it turns out,
all Sketch graphics know how to rotate.
Back in the definition
of the GraphicsObject,
which is the base class for all
of the various shapes in Sketch,
we're going to say that GraphicsObjects
respond to the Rotate command.
They do so by calling the
"Rotate:" method on the object.
Then, of course, the object itself has to
have a "Rotate:" method.
You'll notice that the handler for
an object-first dispatch receives
the NSScript command as its input.
That's because you'll need to be
able to probe the NSScript command
to find out what the parameters
are and other information about
what it is you're supposed to do.
You only get one input,
but it's one very powerful input
that has a lot of information in it.
Now we're going to go back to Demo 2
and look at object-first dispatching.
So again,
I'm going to add a couple of files.
To my project,
rectangle rotate .h and .m.
And as you can see,
what we're going to do is we're
going to add a single method to the
SKT rectangle object that already exists.
We're going to do it
by adding a category,
and the method that we're going
to add is called "rotate:" and its
sole input is an NSScript command.
And here's the implementation.
We have our same definition
for orientations,
which I'm not sure we're going to use.
And this is the implementation.
These two lines show you why you
need that command as an input.
The command has something
called evaluated arguments,
and these are very nice.
Cocoa scripting has already gone through
the incoming arguments and done as much
resolution on them as it possibly can.
If one of your incoming
arguments is an object,
is a scriptable Cocoa object,
it will have already been resolved.
So instead of getting an Apple descriptor
of which object you should be acting on,
Cocoa scripting will resolve that and
actually give you the object itself.
It saves a lot of time,
it saves a lot of messing around.
Whenever Cocoa scripting can
evaluate an incoming object for you,
it will.
Since our incoming
object is just a number,
there isn't much for
Cocoa scripting to do.
We get the evaluated arguments
and then from inside the evaluated
arguments we get the "by degrees"
"The first step is to
create a scripting object,
which turns out to be an NSNumber.
Before we go any farther,
we make absolutely sure
that it is an NSNumber,
and if so, we pull the value out."
And then we do some algebra.
I know you thought you'd
never use your algebra again,
but you will.
And we're going to make
some restrictions here.
We're only going to allow rotation
by even multiples of 90 degrees.
So this calculation here determines
whether or not we're going to have
an even number of 90 degree turns.
And this calculation here normalizes
that to some number between 0 and 4.
Well, if you rotate something
an even number of turns,
it doesn't actually change.
If you rotate a rectangle
an even number of turns,
it doesn't actually change shape.
So we're just going to skip
those and not do anything.
But if we're rotating
an odd number of turns,
then there's some work to do.
And what this calculation
here does effectively
The first thing we'll talk about is
the "Compute Rectangle" function.
It computes the original center of the
rectangle and puts it back where it
started originally based on its center.
As we rotate the rectangle,
it doesn't rotate around
one of its corners,
it rotates around its own center.
Again, there's the possibility that we
could get some data in that's not
going to be meaningful since we're
only allowing 90 degree turns.
Any number other than 90, 50, 60,
70 isn't going to work.
If the original input value
was not an NSNumber at all,
if you had happened to pick an
enumerated value that wasn't applicable,
that would also generate an error.
Returning the error is a
little bit simpler here.
Since we have access
to the command itself,
all we actually need to do is
tell it to set the error number.
There's a little bit less work to
do because you've already got the
command; it's one of your inputs.
So that's a little bit easier.
We'll sketch again.
And we'll draw our rectangles again.
And we'll move on to our next test.
So as you can see in this test,
we're going to get the
orientation of every rectangle.
We've already implemented that,
so we expect that to work.
Then we're going to
look at each rectangle.
We're going to fetch the array,
the entire collection,
and keep that in an AppleScript variable
called "x". And then we're going to walk
through that array and tell each of the
objects in it to rotate by 90 degrees.
Then we're going to tell one of
them to rotate by 80 degrees,
which should cause an error.
And then we're going to
get the orientation again,
and we should see all the
landscapes change to portrait,
and all the portraits
change to landscape.
That's the theory.
And that's pretty much what we got.
As you can see,
The orientation started out landscape,
landscape, portrait,
and now it's portrait, portrait,
landscape.
That's exactly what we expected.
And the one erroneous input
value did indeed return an error.
So our error reporting is working,
our rotating is working,
and our logging is working.
We can see that the rotate
command did in fact get called.
And Cocoa scripting,
since this is a development software,
will log some of its activities as well.
So you can see what Cocoa scripting
is doing interleaved with what you're
doing and that can be very informative.
So, back to the slides please.
So that's an object-first
dispatching command.
There's another kind of command,
verb-first dispatching,
and that's going to have a slightly
different dictionary entry.
In this case the verb is going to be
called "align" so the human readable
term "align" is highlighted there.
But the Cocoa class that we're
going to use to implement this
is no longer NSScriptCommand,
it's going to be SKTAlignCommand.
SKTAlignCommand is going to
inherit from NSScriptCommand,
but it's going to add some additional
functionality that allows this
to be a verb-first dispatch.
We're going to need another parameter,
we need an edge to which
to align everything.
If you saw session 103 you know
that that's also implemented as
an enumeration and gives us six
different choices of how to align.
When we do our support for
our verb-first dispatching,
we're going to create a
subclass of NSScriptCommand
and we're going to override its
"performDefaultImplementation" method.
And so here's the code to do that.
We're not going to add any
instance variables to this at all.
We're just going to override one method.
And so if we can go back to demo 2,
we'll do some verb-first dispatching.
One more time.
We will be adding two
files to our project.
You can see here pretty much
exactly what you saw on the slide.
We're creating a subclass of
NSScriptCommand and we're going
to define one method and that's
performDefaultImplementation.
So here you can see we've
got six different choices
of what it is you can do.
And so as we move down here
we're going to have six
different ways of handling it.
But there's some important
stuff that we have to do first.
In verb-first dispatching,
Cocoa scripting doesn't
help you out quite so much.
When you get the direct parameter,
it may not be as fully evaluated
as it would normally be in
an object-first dispatching.
Obviously, object-first dispatching,
the direct parameter's been fully
reconciled by Cocoa scripting because
the direct parameter is the object
that actually receives the message.
In verb-first dispatching
it's not so simple.
So you're going to need to get
the direct parameter yourself.
When you're doing verb-first dispatching,
you don't get any inputs.
But you don't need them because
the verb-first dispatching handler
is itself the NS script command.
So if you need anything
from NS script command,
you get it from yourself.
So anything in object-first dispatching
that would refer to the command,
in verb-first dispatching
you refer to self instead.
So you grab your direct parameter
and now we're going to look at it.
It can be any one of,
and here's an instance of,
I'm logging something
about what's going on.
I'm not just logging the
fact that we arrived here.
I'm logging what my direct parameter
looks like because if I have any
trouble handling my direct parameter,
it might be because I'm seeing a new
case that hadn't occurred before.
So if I log what the direct parameter is,
it's going to help me
find some bugs later on.
When I'm done,
I know that what I'm going to end up
with is an array of graphics objects.
So I create an empty array here
to collect them as I find them.
Then there's a couple of possibilities.
If the direct parameter
is itself an array,
then I'm going to want to
iterate through that array and
find out what's inside of it.
And so I do that.
I create an enumerator for that array and
I start to walk through the array itself.
Now what turns out to be inside of this
array is NS Script Object Specifiers.
What these are is unresolved
pointers to your objects.
Cocoa scripting hasn't taken a look
at these yet to try to figure out
which objects they really represent.
You're receiving an array of
just the pointers themselves.
But Cocoa scripting is still your friend.
In one line we can ask
Cocoa scripting to tell us,
"Okay, resolve this thing and give me the
object that it really points to."
It could occur that
that itself is an array,
because there are such
things as range specifiers.
Every rectangle from 3 to 5.
That's actually going to give you back
an array of three different rectangles.
So you're going to want to
notice if that's happening,
and if that's the case,
you're going to want to add that
entire array to the end of your
collection as you're building it up.
And if it's just a single object,
you'll add that to the end of your array.
So, by the time we get to here,
we actually know the
collection of objects that
we're going to be working on.
And that's really the purpose
of verb-first dispatching,
is we're going to act on a
bunch of objects all at once.
And it's up to us,
we have to do a little bit of coding
to find out what those objects are.
Now we're pretty much back
to where we were before.
We know the collection
that we're going to act on,
now we just need to know
what it is we're going to do.
So we get the evaluated arguments,
and we get the edge arguments.
And we get the argument from out of that.
And that should be an NSNumber with a
long value that corresponds to one of
those 4 byte codes that we defined.
And there's different,
we're going to switch on that value
and do one of six different things.
I'm not going to go
through all six of them.
But again, you get to use your algebra.
We're going to...
I've already done this here.
I've grabbed the bounds of the
first element of the array.
That's going to be the master.
That's the fixed point to which
all the others are going to align.
Then when I get down here,
I'm going to iterate through
the entire collection and
align them all to the original.
The smart students have already
figured out I could have started
with the second member of the array.
We do a little bit of algebra here
and we align the objects to the
first object in the collection.
As you can see,
we do that one of six different ways,
depending upon which edge it is
they've asked us to align to.
Let's build that.
And this time we're going to go nuts.
We're going to make some rectangles.
We're going to make some circles, ovals.
We're going to add some lines.
And then we're going to run our
test script to align these things.
[Transcript missing]
Run that.
And sure enough they align part way.
And then boom,
they align the rest of the way.
So now all of these objects
are aligned by both their
vertical and horizontal centers.
And again,
you can see down here in the log,
we've got lots of information,
including some that Sketch itself
logs about the size and
shapes of various objects.
So again, you can see your scriptability
code running interleaved with
the Cocoa scripting logging that
goes on in a developer version,
in a developer install of the OS,
and also any logging that the
application might already be
doing for its own purposes.
Again, like I said,
this can be very educational.
The patterns by which
Cocoa scripting calls your
accessors are very predictable,
but you need to learn what they are.
And then when you see
something unpredictable occur,
that's your hint that maybe
something's going wrong.
and you need to step more carefully and
more closely through your code and make
sure it's doing what you want it to do.
If we can go back to the slides please.
So that's verb-first dispatching.
You should use verb-first
dispatching where it's appropriate,
but you should always try to use
object-first dispatching if you can.
There are other aspects of handling
commands that may or may not apply
to your particular application.
If you've got some long-running process,
if your application is threaded,
if you have to wait for things
to come in across a network,
then you might need to suspend an
Apple event while it's in the process
of being handled and resume it later
on when you've finally got the answer.
There's a relatively easy way to do that.
In an object-first dispatch,
you can just say command
suspend execution.
And in a verb-first,
you say self suspend execution.
At some point later,
your program will receive a
callback from some long-running
function to say I'm done.
And at that point,
you can simply resume the command
and pass back whatever response
you would have passed back had
you handled it synchronously.
If you need to do this kind of thing,
come to the lab.
We can show you how to do it.
It's not hard, but it can be very,
very important for certain
kinds of applications.
As we've been going along here,
I've been showing you
little test scripts.
When you write these test scripts,
you're going to want to cover your
code as much as you possibly can.
When you're writing a test
script to access elements,
you want to get those elements,
and you want to get them as
many different ways as you can.
You'll want to get every
element of a certain kind.
That'll call your simple accessor.
You'll also want to get elements by name,
by ID, and by index.
If you've provided the
accelerated accessors,
they'll get called.
If you haven't,
Cocoa scripting will do the
necessary look-ups for you.
You're also going to want to
call your setting accessors.
You're going to want to make
sure that you make a new object
of each kind that you support.
You're going to want to make
sure that you delete an object
of each kind you support.
You're going to want to
delete from the beginning,
the end,
and the middle of your collection.
Make sure that all works.
You're going to want to do
a replace in place if that's
something that you support.
Not every application does.
For properties, the same thing.
You're going to want to get
all the properties all at once
by using "getProperties" which
is something Cocoa scripting,
again, is your friend.
"getProperties" is not something
that you define in your code,
but if an Apple script comes in that
says "getProperties" Cocoa scripting will
call your object over and over again,
once for each property accessor,
make a record out of that
and pass it back to the user.
But you want to make
sure that that works.
You want to make sure
that Cocoa scripting is
calling the right routines.
You'll also want to get at each
of the properties by their name.
So you're going to want to
get the height of a rectangle,
you're going to want to get the width,
you're going to want
to get the fill color.
You want to exercise
each one of those things.
Make sure that you touch each
of the leaves in the tree.
You're going to want to write
test scripts that set your values,
but you're going to want
them to be repeatable.
So you're going to want to do a "get
set reset" kind of pattern where you
leave things the way you found them.
So that this script can be run
over and over and over again
and give the same results.
You're going to want to take a
copy of the event log and keep
that so that you can compare it to
the results you got the last time.
So that you can make sure that
you haven't regressed anything.
This can be very valuable whether
you're working on scripting or not.
If you're making any kind of
changes to your model objects,
you're going to want to
run these tests over again.
Make sure that you haven't damaged
the model objects in any such way that
these tests don't pass any longer.
You're going to want to drive
your program to the edges.
Like I said, delete the first object
in the collection,
delete the last.
Well you're also going to
want to set your values to the
entire range that they support.
And you're also going to
want to generate error cases.
You're going to want to set your values
to things that they don't support.
And make sure that something
is in the right place.
Make sure that something
sensible happens.
That depending upon your design,
you may want to fail silently.
You may want to provide an error message.
It's up to you what you think
your scripting users are
going to expect you to do.
For the commands,
you're going to want to exercise
them thoroughly as well.
For their parameters,
you're going to want to
pass them parameters,
but you're also going to want to skip
passing them parameters and see what
happens when they take their defaults.
Make sure that that works
the way you expected it to.
Again, you're going to want to
drive these commands all the
way up to their edge cases,
and then you're going to
want to drive them past the
edge cases and create errors.
Make sure that they get handled
in a reasonable fashion.
Record the results, hang on to them,
and the next time you make changes,
run the scripts again and make
sure you get the same results.
or if you get the differences,
you get the differences that you wanted.
Then the final proof here that
you've really created something
valuable is to test your use cases.
You need to have at least one
and hopefully several real-world
use cases that your application's
users are going to care about.
Things that people have
called you up and said,
gee, it would be really easy if
I had a menu command to do this.
And you realize, eh,
only one guy wants that.
I'm not going to make it a menu command,
but I am going to make it
accessible through scriptability.
And once I've done that,
I know I've got a customer out there
that's depending upon that working just
as much as if it were a menu command.
He's going to consider my application
to be broken if that script breaks
just as much as some other user is
going to consider my application
to be broken if they pull down
the print menu and it won't print.
Once you've added a feature
through scriptability,
you have to preserve that feature just
like any other feature of your program.
So you're going to want to test your
real-world cases over and over again.
Make sure they're repeatable.
Make sure that they set themselves back
the way they were when they started.
And when you run them
over and over again,
you want to get the same
results over and over again.
So, to review,
here's what we talked about today.
We talked about logging.
I think it's very important.
It's hard to know what Cocoa scripting
is asking of you unless you
log your activities when you
respond to Cocoa scripting.
We talked about element accessors.
This is how the scripter gets at
the objects inside your application.
Element accessors are what make
AppleScript object-oriented.
Property accessors are important
because one object is pretty much the
same as another except for its size,
shape, color, etc.
We've talked about commands
and the two different kinds:
object-first dispatching
and verb-first dispatching.
You will find instances of
both in your program and you'll
need to learn to support both.
We've talked about the importance
of automated regression testing,
how it can help you make sure
your scriptability works.
It can also help you make sure
that other parts of your program
haven't regressed when you're
making changes that have nothing
whatsoever to do with scriptability.
And the real payoff:
testing those real-world use cases
that prove that your scriptability
is of real value to your end users.
Once you're locked in to an automated
workflow at your end user's site,
they will never get rid of your program.
They may augment your application with
others that do things differently,
but as long as you're part
of an automated workflow,
you're part of their collection
of applications forever.
If you want to get documentation or
the sample code that I used today,
you can go to this site later
today or when you get home.
There's a wealth of information there
about this session and all the others.
You'll be going back to this
site over and over again,
I'm sure.
We have a lab this
afternoon at 2 o'clock.
I'm not sure exactly
physically where it is,
but it's called the Apple Script Lab.
And we'll be there to help
you bring your application,
bring your source code,
and we'll try to help you make it
scriptable at least a little bit right
here at the conference this week.
And then when you go home next
week you can finish the job.
Once you get started it's not hard.
Once you've got a few things
working it's pretty easy to make
more things work the same way.
So come to the lab,
we'll get you started,
and in a short period of time you'll
have a scriptable application.
There are some people that you may
want to contact if you have questions
after we leave here this week.
Sal Segoyans, our marketing manager,
many of you probably already met him.
He can tell you almost
everything you need to know.
And if you need more
technical information,
if you need more direct access to us,
you can contact my boss, Todd Fernandez.
He's the manager of the
Apple Script and Automator group.
And there's a mailing list.
You can send your questions
to the mailing list.
I see several people here today
that are very active on the mailing
list that will help you out.
People from Apple chime in,
but for the most part this is
a developer community exercise.
You put your question on the
Apple Script Implementers list and
you'll get one or more responses from
people that have done this kind of work
before and they can really help you out.